---
description: A technical discussion overviewing the following protocols
cover: >-
  https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1665766760181-c3e9c40280fc?crop=entropy&cs=tinysrgb&fm=jpg&ixid=MnwxOTcwMjR8MHwxfHJhbmRvbXx8fHx8fHx8fDE2NjcxOTIxMzI&ixlib=rb-4.0.3&q=80
coverY: 0
---

# Whitepaper

<table data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th data-card-target data-type="content-ref"></th><th data-hidden></th><th data-hidden></th><th data-hidden></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><a href="broken-reference">Broken link</a></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="broken-reference">Broken link</a></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><a href="broken-reference">Broken link</a></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

> To quickly access other parts of the paper, click on the sections above to find out more!

A primary consideration during the construction of the platform was finding genuine use for each system implemented. With the release of several platforms by traditional providers such as JetBrains Fleet, Deta Space, and Apple's newfound commitment to iCloud's online interface we can cautiously demonstrate valid motivation for pursing a personal cloud platform. The primary question is who will solve the issue, centralized or decentralized providers? It is our belief that blockchain technologies hold natural solutions to several of the issues currently facing traditional service providers, while further acknowledging that the same is also true in reverse, albeit with a slight change in perspective. Current centralized efforts are struggling maintaining the fidelity of information, keeping costs at a minimum and supporting any financial services due to the inherent composition of their systems. These issues are immediately solved with blockchain however, none are currently applying the technology in the same manner. Rather a majority of decentralized initiatives are pursuing duplicate endeavors polluting dApp markets with an overload of under-developed projects that just cause more distrust with end users while further complicating an already technical onboarding process. Additionally, the failure to completely re-engineer the manner in-which network governance is imposed has grinded many projects to a complete stop where they are eventually abandoned. While we may not claim to have solved each issue our self nor that our platform in and of itself is perfect, we are confident that our proposed platform will stand the test of time offering one of the most unique digital experiences currently available.

Our platform consists of five separate systems, each engineered to fulfill a specific abstraction required to execute and manage engagements, transactions, and other computationally driven desires. This architecture came to after I continued to question the practical applications of blockchain technologies extensively researching the topic and contrasting it with the ongoing efforts of traditional service providers. The result adheres abstractly to the definition of an automata, essentially relying upon Flow to contextualize each engagement or transaction with the adequate proofs.&#x20;

Depending upon the alias currently activated, engaging entities will be constrained by the guidelines agreed upon at the beginning of each interaction. These guidelines are issued directly from the mainnet, Reaction, ensuring to preserve and respect each party’s perspective. Reaction automatically composes these stacked guidelines relative to the current network procedural protocols followed by the region, profession, organization, and personal expectations. Of the five named governing layers, only three are required for public engagements, namely the network, region, and personal constitutions. Working with Flow, the mainnet facilitates a myriad of novel internet-based interactions, encourages network participation, and ensures the fidelity of all information being processed. To remain light enough to see the widespread use of our portals, Disarray was developed to fulfill the computational and data-oriented aspect of the platform. Disarray is a multi-resource blockchain protocol executing commands issued by Flow modules on optimized surfaces. Leveraging the hybrid consensus mechanism powering the network enables us to introduce Aether and Chaos, more robust services constructed on-top of the proof-of-work and proof-of-stake mechanisms respectively selected. Aether extends the reach of standard pow blockchains, leveraging the increased resources in the execution of commands surrounding arithmetic, containerization, and virtualization. Chaos is left building out data-oriented surfaces for Flow modules to command, implementing separate channels for SQL, NoSQL, and object storage networks to cohesively mesh into a single access point. Additionally, Chaos extends functionality natively introduced with Flow to empower users to seamlessly manage their personal cloud networks while supporting a variety of IoT oriented capabilities.&#x20;

Each of the proposed systems is supported with an extensive amount of research, relying upon trusted sources such as IOHK to validate motivations while pushing each experience to its limit with post-quantum considerations imbued into the very fabric of each system. Proton visually manifests the proposed solutions, seamlessly integrating each into an elegant, amorphous portal empowering the everyday user to actively engage in meaningful ways with their peers within Web3 environments. Each portal comes equipped with several professional grade utilities targeting creatives, developers, and common individuals encouraging them to monetize their image. The creative studio is a unique blend of services featuring of a low-code / no-code visual editor and complete with an extensive productivity suite. The visual editor is tied directly to the registered namespace, allowing users to quickly design beautiful interfaces for public, professional, or personal experiences. Furthermore, Proton’s reliance upon Flow allows us to streamline several currently ragged processes surrounding finances by offering a unified portfolio. This is possible by developing a complete decentralized exchange housed on the mainnet Reaction and integrating with external services such as Plaid and Stripe in support of traditional finances. In order to retain the decentralization we wish to see, it is important to note that each integration relies upon a custom api following API3's specifications. By doing this, all of the information being processed by the Flow module is accessible directly within any smart contracts deployed reducing the reliance upon traditional oracles.&#x20;

The careful construction of the ecosystem enables an unparalleled level of operability, modularity, and extensibility without making the compromises traditional service providers have forced consumers to accept as fact. Our commitment to empowering end-users is key factor in what we believe will be the ultimate success of our platform. While there may be several other initiatives currently claiming to pursue similar vendettas, none come close to achieve the scope, flexibility, or security of our ecosystem. Lastly, if nothing else, we hope to shed a light on the ongoing malpractices of traditional service providers while simultaneously outlining a method to defend against these giants.
