# 📰 Vision

Scattered-Systems was founded to solve several issues currently facing Web3 and fueled by the wave of recent global events. Starting with the COVID-19 pandemic, the world has begun to undergo an extraordinary change in culture, practices, and other similar aspects. In addition to the ongoing Russia v. Ukraine conflict, these events have drastically accelerated the need for devising several novel cloud technologies that enable and facilitate professional, purpose-driven interactions. Furthermore, each technological innovation is further fueling the 5G revolution which is motivated by its trillion-dollar market. While there are a plethora of other projects pursing similar goals, none have managed to achieve the scope nor malleability of our meticulously crafted unified interface, Proton.&#x20;

Proton is the visual manifestation of the active decentralized namespace, relying upon a host of optimized solutions to deliver a seamlessly secure next generation internet-based experience. Each solution represents the pursuit of an abstraction and is designed to be seamlessly integrated into the portal. With granular customizations and a modular architecture, each portal enables users like never before empowering everyone to actively engage with their peers in meaningful ways. Proton implements a myriad of professional grade utilities from a complete creative studio with included low-code / no-code editor, unified financial portfolio, and automation hub intended to facilitate the creation of decentralized content. Each portal is operated by a user registered to a Flow module, a hyper-light constant sized blockchain engineered as a detachable account. Users will be encouraged to register as many devices, external accounts, and otherwise as possible with their system enabling the platform to extend its computational prowess without introducing native overhead. Flow modules further lay the foundation for a complete computational layer to be implemented as each registered node quietly runs basic functionality for the management of personal networks. Personal networks cluster together globally to form the hybrid multi-resource blockchain network, Disarray, operating under Aetheric (PoW) or Chaotic (PoS) modes depending upon the hosts available resources. Aether and Chaos are optimized for specific workloads or use cases engaging entities require for the completion of the task at hand. This further reduces the need for Flow modules to implement robust consensus algorithms freeing Flow to remain responsible for actively interpreting the intentions of the user to sign and publish proxied transactions recently routed through Disarray nodes onto the mainnet Reaction. Reaction is the destination for published content further serving the ecosystem as the community center. Additionally, Reaction works in tandem with engaging Flow modules to actively moderate interactions relative to accepted, stacked guidelines clearly stated before being allowed to participate. This feature enables a host of novel interactions to be facilitated by the platform and directly supports our internal vendetta of using technology to benefit end users rather than target them. Our motivation to empower users is highlighted in the commitment to incorporating educational and professional opportunities with the introduction of professional pipelines. A professional pipeline is curated by an on-chain certification board generally consisting of a tiered set of requirements, each accompanied with a valid digital course, and rewards the user with the profession’s token. Upon receiving the professions NFT users are immediately registered as active participants in the respective bounty market and are encouraged to begin fulfilling gigs to their best ability. Each job is immutably recorded into the ledger stored within the NFT, allowing owners to review their complete historical progress, and generating reports for clients to review before agreeing to move forwards.&#x20;

All of this culminates into a unified interface capable of empowering users to actively engage in secure, blockchain-based interactions without the requirements typically associated with the technology. Instead, the ecosystem focuses on the end-user prioritizing personal and professional growth while encouraging even the least tech-savvy individuals to enjoy the benefits of cloud computing and blockchain technology.
